[Music]
so you accidentally catch some bits of
conversation between flight attendants
and pilots and it's like they're
speaking another language secret codes
abbreviations seemingly meaningless
phrases Zulu packs and what on earth is
gate lice are they talking about me
stand by for takeoff this will be
interesting
number one George is flying the plane
but it's not the pilots name well it
could be but here this is what the
plane's autopilot system is called so
he's not named Otto hmm George is
programmed to follow a certain rule
taking into consideration the wind
conditions turbulence and altitude
pilots normally use the autopilot after
reaching the cruising altitude or after
flying for more than 10 hours that's
when they're required to have a rest
number-two cleared for takeoff after the
crew is done with the all system
pre-flight inspection they're ready to
head off that's when you can hear the
pilot saying cleared for takeoff some
decades though the pre takeoff phrase
was a bit wordy er let's kick the tires
and light the fires
number three spinners that's what
crewmembers call passengers who turn up
late and without an assigned seat
they look flustered and keep spinning
around trying to find an unoccupied
place and some space in an overhead bin
for cross-check this expression is often
announced over the intercom after
hearing this phrase flight attendants
make sure that all the doors are armed
this means that if they are open the
slide RAF or escape slide will deploy
automatically all the doors have to be
armed before takeoff and disarmed before
flight attendants open them after
landing five jump seat these are the
small seats flight attendants occupy
when the plane takes off lands or
travels through turbulence the name
comes from the way a seat folds up right
after a person gets out from it
kind of like seats at the movies six
there's a pilot in the jump seat no he's
not about to jump from the plane though
that would be fun it's actually pretty
common that an off-duty pilot or other
flight personnel take jump seats went
flying back to their home base Aviation
Authority inspectors can also travel in
fold up seats some airlines may even
offer jump seats to pilots working for
other companies 7 we're flying through
an air pocket when most passengers hear
the word turbulence they start to
quietly or not so quietly panic that's
why crew members avoid saying this word
when they're talking to each other
instead they use the term air pocket but
it's just another word for the
phenomenon that will jostle your plane
up and down or from one side to the
other me I'd rather have a hot pocket a
number eight runners if your first
flight has arrived late and you're in a
mad dash to catch your connecting flight
you're a runner you might overhear crew
members or ground staff say runners are
on the way it means you're waiting for
some transfer passengers unfortunately
if a flight has a strict departure time
it may leave without the runners that
happened to me had to wave bye-bye to my
own flight has your plane ever taken off
without you let me know your most
memorable good or bad Airport experience
down in the comments and let's keep
going number nine Zulu time during one
flight a plane can pass several time
zones to avoid confusion in
communication with air traffic
controllers pilots use Zulu time it's
also called Greenwich Mean Time or GMT
and it's the universal time zone for air
travel GMT is the time of Greenwich
London and if it's 5 p.m. and Greenwich
it'll be 5 p.m. for every plane in the
sky
ten gate lice no scalp evading bugs here
gate lice is what ground staff and
flight crew call passengers who start to
crowd in front of their gate long before
the boarding is announced all their
focus is on boarding the plane as fast
as possible and securing a place for
their carry-on luggage in an overhead
bin over their seat so try not to be one
of these eleven pan-pan
pilots use this term in their
communication with air traffic
controllers this is the signal that
means something has gone wrong with a
flight and the cockpit crew needs
immediate attention when other pilots
who are using the same radio frequency
hear this signal they stop all their
communication and let the pan-pan pilot
get their message through twelve tree
flower five Niner now a short lesson on
pilot English tree stands for three
flower is four five is five and Niner
means nine know your captain doesn't
have marshmallows in his mouth such
pronunciation helps to avoid radio
miscommunications and the confusion
caused by similar sounding numbers and
words 13 redeye true to its name a
red-eye is an overnight flight and while
some flight attendants have difficulty
keeping their eyes open others love
night shifts because almost the whole
plane is sleeping 14 pinkeye not an eye
infection in the aviation world but a
flight that takes place a bit earlier
than the red-eye it still arrives pretty
late in the evening but usually no later
than midnight 15 pax when you hear a
flight attendant saying we have 130
packs onboard they mean passengers and
if they want to refer to a certain
passenger flight attendants are likely
to use their seat number for example 22
charlie or 18 alpha
sixteen fairy fly this term is used when
an empty plane with no passengers or
cargo on board gets flown from one place
to another for cabin crew it's a time
when they can relax ferry flights may
happen when there's a technical problem
with an airliner and pilots need to
bring it back to its home base 17 do the
flight deck need anything if you hear a
flight attendant asking a colleague this
question they want to know if the
cockpit crew which is the captain and
first officer have any requests
hey maybe some popcorn 18 Roger and
Wilco in aviation slang Roger stands for
message received but it doesn't mean
that the speaker will comply with this
message Wilco on the other hand is a
short form of will comply in other words
the speaker has received understood and
will follow the instructions 19 chimes
no they're not the little green onions
you put on baked potatoes chimes are the
very dings you hear throughout the fly
they can mean loads of different things
from an emergency to the pilots call or
more commonly a passenger pressing the
service button
flight attendants can distinguish the
chimes because all the dings have
different tones 20 flight level that's
just a cool way to say how many thousand
feet there are under your plane just add
two zeros and you'll figure out the
exact number for example by saying that
your cruising altitude is flight level
350 row your pilot means that the
aircraft is 35,000 feet above sea level
21 we're just finishing some paperwork
if you hear the captain saying this
phrase it doesn't automatically mean
you're in for a delay finishing
paperwork usually means revising the
flight itinerary checking the plane's
weight and balance or even waiting for
the ground staff to prepare the flights
logbook but I've also heard it used once
to disguise the
that maintenance crew is trying to fix
something on the plane 22 final approach
the final approach means slightly
different things for pilots and flight
attendants cabin crew speaks of the
final approach when the plane is nearing
the final part of the descent for pilots
the final approach means the plane is
already aligned with the runway and they
don't need a manoeuvre or make
additional turns I think a long time ago
they used to say something like we are
now making our terminal descent to the
airport but lately the word terminal
just has this unfortunate you know
end-of-life connotation so I like final
approach a lot better 23 direct versus
nonstop flight plenty of travelers mix
these terms up a direct flight can have
stops along the way the main thing is
that it's number doesn't get changed
other than that a plane can have as many
intermediate stops as needed a nonstop
flight on the other hand doesn't land
until it arrives at its final
destination
it's the final and immediate boarding
call if this phrase includes your name
who you're in trouble
the airline staff announces this to
inform you that the plane is about to
leave it sounds urgent and serious and
it is so get your butt on board 25 SOP
the abbreviation SOP stands for standard
operating procedures that's all the
tests the cabin crew performs on board
and there are many keeping passengers
bags away from exits opening window
shades before takeoff and landing
putting coasters under glasses in
business class that's not even the tip
of the iceberg
26 bulkhead
no it's not the jerky passenger three
rows up that would be a Jughead bulkhead
is either a wall or a curtain that
separates different cabin classes or the
galley in the laboratory if you have a
bulkhead seat count yourself lucky
you'll have more legroom
[Music]
27 area of weather this phrase usually
means heavy rain or a thunderstorm not
far from a flying plane so don't be
surprised if your captain says there's
an area of weather ahead we're going to
fly around it and then I check and make
sure my barf bag sorry I mean my
turbulence effects collection receptacle
is handy hey if you learn something new
today then give the video a like and
share with a friend and here are some
other videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life